So normally, publishing packages
would be a really annoying thing for
us to do in the workshop.
Because to really experience publishing,
you have to pollute NPM.
You have to actually
send packages into NPM.
Don't want to have us do that.
And in particular,
as you're playing around with this and
as you're learning this, I want you to
feel like you have a thing that you
can make messy and then throw it away.
We're going to use something called for
Dotto, which is a local NPM proxy.
Here's how it works.
You're gonna go and all I did here is I
opened up a second shell because I want my
Verdaccio kind of running
in the background here.
So I did,
you can do like volta install Verdaccio,
I already have the latest
version installed.
And then here's how you started.
Just run through dacha So
What we have now is A local
packaging industry.
So you can see this is this is mine.
This is like the web UI.
So I just went to localhost 4873.
Right, which is just
the same thing that it
originally told me right
after it started up.
Yet right here 4873 and you can see
that there's some stuff in here already.
Now so
this it knows how to talk like NPM talks.
Your your ci tools will think that this
is NPM we just have to do one little
thing real quick.
And that is in our project.
I think I left a file here for us.
I did not because it's so trivial So
all we need to do is create an NPMRC
file which will tell yarn and
learner To use this as our registry.
That's it.
That's all you have to do.
Now when you run yarn install, it's going
to look at prodotto instead of NPM.
And by the way, for dacha if it
doesn't have something cached and
sort of local overrides, it'll just go
ask NPM for you, This is also great.
By the way, if you're, if you're attending
a workshop at a conference, or if you,
you have to do some work in a place
where like the connectivity is bad.
This can be like a cache of your NPM
packages that work offline since it's all
running off localhost.
If there's an internet connection,
it'll get stuff, you know,
get the latest things.
Otherwise you can use what you have songs,
it's recent enough that it satisfies
the version constraints.So I'm gonna
leave this running in the background.
And in fact,
I already have some junk in there.
I want to clean it out.
So we're all looking at the same thing and
we have a clean slate.
On Mac OS,
it would be like this rm rf Local
share production, just blow it away.
Let's see, I might have to restart it.
I didn't even have to restart it.
Now we're back in the brand new state.
So all I had to do was that
just blew away my packages.
So let's try publishing some stuff now.
Because I can do this and you can too.
Even though we're all using
the same package name,
I'm publishing just to
another thing on my laptop.
So we're not gonna collide in
terms of names and versions.
So I'll say that this is,
I'm just gonna make a comment.
This is a making a fix to the types
package and we'll say reductio.
All right now I'm going to
say learner publish.
Conventional ,commits.
Enter.
It says there are no changes to publish,
interesting.
Let me see if there's anything here.
This first step is a little bit hard here.
Learn is very good once we have a version
that already exists cuz some of how it
determines that the bump to the version
number is it looks at the last release and
compares to the code you have now.
There is no last release at this time.
So I think I just need to
publish each package manually.
Which is simple as this learner exact,
by the way,
isn't it good that we have like this
local thing now, we can just try this.
If it doesn't work, we just float away.
Nothing's in NPM everything's
depletable right?
learner exec,
actually learner, run, publish
No, it's gonna be learning
exact yarn publish.
Because while it is like yarn build, it's
not an NPM script is a yarn sub command.
And I'm going to wrap
quotes around this just so
that It is clear whose
argument is passed to who.
I'm just keeping the same version numbers.
And let's see what we've got.
There we go.
Publish two versions A app has no
idea that this did not end up on NPM.
And if I look I've got this fix here.
So let's make a change.
I'm just gonna go to
really want this to work.
I think it will.
Go to this type card.
You know what we can do here.
There is a legit improvement
I can make here.
Okay here.
So this is meant to check to
see if an array of items,
they're all of the same type.
So I filter out Any mismatches,
I get all mismatches.
And then I check to see if there
are greater than 0 mismatches.
This is not ideal from a performance
standpoint because as soon
as I find the first violator,
I know that I'm going to return false.
I do not need to check every
single item in this array.
So, I can just use some array.some,
If some of the items fail
to check return false,
otherwise, return true.
So in theory, I've just sped this up,
made it a little bit faster.
And I wanna make one more change here.
In my learner,
I want to get change this version from 1 0
0 to independent.
Right to that there's a reason we've been
like, regardless of what we touched,
it's always a new release of everything,
everything, everything.
Independent allows us To just say,
look, only types changed.
So types will get released and
anything that depends on types
because it needs a bump.
It may get released.
And I'll call this a chore.
We'll see if it's happy
with no scope here.
Called independent versioning
seems happy with it.
All right,
now let's learn a command for changed.
Let's see what this looks like.
Lerna changed 2 packages ready to publish.
There's one explanation here.
Yep, two packages.
Types got bumped utili depends on types.
It gets pumped too